README.md, before:

# Matchie
Deep JavaScript object comparison library.

[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/solarflare045/matchie.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/solarflare045/matchie)

## Installation
```bash
npm install matchie
```

## Basic Usage
```JavaScript
var matchie = require('matchie');
...
var same = matchie(value, matcher);
```
This will do a deep comparison of the value against the matcher. The matcher can be a simple value, or an object with utility functions as listed below.

#### Deep Object Comparison
```JavaScript
var matcher = { a: 1, b: 1 };

matchie({a: 1}, matcher); // false
matchie({a: 1, b: 1}, matcher); // true
matchie({a: 1, b: 1, c: 1}, matcher); // false
```

#### Utility Function Usage
```JavaScript
var matcher = matchie.or(matchie.between(5, 10), 15);

matchie(0, matcher); // false
matchie(5, matcher); // true
matchie(10, matcher); // false
matchie(15, matcher); // true
```

#### Deep Object Comparison with Utility Functions
```JavaScript
var matcher = { a: matchie.unordered([ matchie.is.string, matchie.is.number ]) };

matchie({ a: ['string', 5] }, matcher); // true
matchie({ a: [5, 'string'] }, matcher); // true
matchie({ a: ['string', 5, 5] }, matcher); // false
matchie({ b: ['string', 5] }, matcher); // false
```

## Utility Functions

`matchie.and(args...)`
`matchie.all(args...)`
Requires all of the provided arguments to match the value.

`matchie.between(a, b)`
Requires the value to be between the provided bounds of **[`a`, `b`)**
*(The `a` bound is inclusive and the `b` bound is exclusive.)*

`matchie.contains(a)`
If `a` and value are both strings, then `a` must be found within value.
If the value is an array, then an element within the array must match `a`.
Otherwise, this will return false.

`matchie.equals(a)`
Requires a weak comparison *(`==`)* between value and `a`.

`matchie.gt(num)`
Requires the value to be greater than `num`.

`matchie.gte(num)`
Requires the value to be greater than or equal to `num`.

`matchie.hasProperty(key, val)`
Requires the value to have the specified `key`, with it matching `val`.

`matchie.in(arr)`
Requires the value to match at least one of the elements in `arr`.

`matchie.instanceOf(cls)`
Requires the value to be an instance of `cls`. *(Cannot be serialized.)*

`matchie.lt(num)`
Requires the value to be less than `num`.

`matchie.lte(num)`
Requires the value to be less than or equal to `num`.

`matchie.maybe(val)`
Requires the value to be undefined, or match `val`.

`matchie.none(args...)`
Requires none of the provided arguments to match the value.

`matchie.not(matcher)`
Inverts the value of the provided `matcher`.

`matchie.or(args...)`
Requires any of the provided arguments to match the value.

`matchie.outside(a, b)`
Requires the value to be between the provided bounds of **(-Inf, `a`) or [`b`, Inf)**
*(This is the inverse of the `.between` function.)*

`matchie.partial(arg)`
`matchie.has(arg)`
If `arg` and value are both arrays, each element in `arg` must match an element in value.
If `arg` and value are both object, each key in `arg` must match a key in value.
Otherwise, this will return false.

`matchie.same(obj)`
Requires a strong comparison *(`===`)* between value and `a`.

`matchie.typeOf(type)`
Requires the value to have the type of `type`.

`matchie.unordered(arg)`
If `arg` and value are both arrays, `arg` and value must contain the same set of elements, however, the order is not important.
Otherwise, this will return false.

`matchie.xor(args...)`
`matchie.one(args...)`
`matchie.single(args...)`
Requires exactly one of the provided arguments to match the value.

## Lodash Wrappers
For the sake of serialization, many of lodash's functions are available through the `matchie.is.???` object.

| Matchie Function        | Lodash Function   |
| ----------------------- | ----------------- |
| `matchie.is.array`      | `_.isArray`       |
| `matchie.is.boolean`    | `_.isBoolean`     |
| `matchie.is.date`       | `_.isDate`        |
| `matchie.is.element`    | `_.isElement`     |
| `matchie.is.empty`      | `_.isEmpty`       |
| `matchie.is.error`      | `_.isError`       |
| `matchie.is.finite`     | `_.isFinite`      |
| `matchie.is.function`   | `_.isFunction`    |
| `matchie.is.integer`    | `_.isInteger`     |
| `matchie.is.nan`        | `_.isNaN`         |
| `matchie.is.native`     | `_.isNative`      |
| `matchie.is.nil`        | `_.isNil`         |
| `matchie.is.null`       | `_.isNull`        |
| `matchie.is.number`     | `_.isNumber`      |
| `matchie.is.object`     | `_.isObject`      |
| `matchie.is.plainObject`| `_.isPlainObject` |
| `matchie.is.regExp`     | `_.isRegExp`      |
| `matchie.is.string`     | `_.isString`      |
| `matchie.is.typedArray` | `_.isTypedArray`  |
| `matchie.is.undefined`  | `_.isUndefined`   |

## Converter Functions
Sometimes the value will not be in a sensible format to then compare against your matcher. Converters allow you to convert the input value to a different
type before performing the matcher comparison.

| Converter Function      | Lodash Equivalent |
| ----------------------- | ----------------- |
| `matchie.as.integer`    | `_.toInteger`     |
| `matchie.as.number`     | `_.toNumber`      |
| `matchie.as.string`     | `_.toString`      |

There is also `matchie.as.json` which parses the input through `JSON.parse`, and presents an object. If the input string cannot be parsed, this matcher
will return `false` instead, with no comparisons performed with its value.

#### JSON Input example
```JavaScript
var matcher = matchie.as.json(matchie.has({a: 1}));

matchie('{"a": 1, "b": 1}', matcher); // true
matchie('{"a": 2, "b": 1}', matcher); // false
matchie('{crazy: value: pair}', matcher); // false
```

## Serialization
If you need to store a matcher object as string, you can use `matchie.serialize(matcher)` and `matchie.deserialize(string)`.
*(NOTE: Not all utility functions can be serialized!)*

Commit message:

Added the 'matchie.matches' function and documentation for Date support.

README.md, after:

# Matchie
Deep JavaScript object comparison library.

[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/solarflare045/matchie.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/solarflare045/matchie)

## Installation
```bash
npm install matchie
```

## Basic Usage
```JavaScript
var matchie = require('matchie');
...
var same = matchie(value, matcher);
```
This will do a deep comparison of the value against the matcher. The matcher can be a simple value, or an object with utility functions as listed below.

#### Deep Object Comparison
```JavaScript
var matcher = { a: 1, b: 1 };

matchie({a: 1}, matcher); // false
matchie({a: 1, b: 1}, matcher); // true
matchie({a: 1, b: 1, c: 1}, matcher); // false
```

#### Utility Function Usage
```JavaScript
var matcher = matchie.or(matchie.between(5, 10), 15);

matchie(0, matcher); // false
matchie(5, matcher); // true
matchie(10, matcher); // false
matchie(15, matcher); // true
```

#### Deep Object Comparison with Utility Functions
```JavaScript
var matcher = { a: matchie.unordered([ matchie.is.string, matchie.is.number ]) };

matchie({ a: ['string', 5] }, matcher); // true
matchie({ a: [5, 'string'] }, matcher); // true
matchie({ a: ['string', 5, 5] }, matcher); // false
matchie({ b: ['string', 5] }, matcher); // false
```

#### Date Support
The base matching logic, as well as `between`, `gt`, `gte`, `lt`, `lte`, `outside` will compare the value of the `Date` object.
However, `equals` and `same` will compare the reference of the `Date` object, and not its value.
```JavaScript
var a = new Date('2012-05-01');
var b = new Date('2013-06-02');
var c = new Date('2013-06-02');

matchie(a, b); // false
matchie(b, c); // true
matchie(a, matchie.lt(c)); // true
matchie(b, matchie.lt(c)); // false
matchie(b, matchie.equals(c)); // FALSE
matchie(c, matchie.equals(c)); // true
matchie(b, matchie.matches(c)); // true
```

## Utility Functions

`matchie.and(args...)`
`matchie.all(args...)`
Requires all of the provided arguments to match the value.

`matchie.between(a, b)`
Requires the value to be between the provided bounds of **[`a`, `b`)**
*(The `a` bound is inclusive and the `b` bound is exclusive.)*

`matchie.contains(a)`
If `a` and value are both strings, then `a` must be found within value.
If the value is an array, then an element within the array must match `a`.
Otherwise, this will return false.

`matchie.equals(a)`
Requires a weak comparison *(`==`)* between value and `a`.

`matchie.gt(num)`
Requires the value to be greater than `num`.

`matchie.gte(num)`
Requires the value to be greater than or equal to `num`.

`matchie.hasProperty(key, val)`
Requires the value to have the specified `key`, with it matching `val`.

`matchie.in(arr)`
Requires the value to match at least one of the elements in `arr`.

`matchie.instanceOf(cls)`
Requires the value to be an instance of `cls`. *(Cannot be serialized.)*

`matchie.lt(num)`
Requires the value to be less than `num`.

`matchie.lte(num)`
Requires the value to be less than or equal to `num`.

`matchie.matches(matcher)`
Requires the value to match `matcher`.
*(For the purposes of convincing `jasmine2-matchie` to use matchie as the equality comparator.)*

`matchie.maybe(val)`
Requires the value to be undefined, or match `val`.

`matchie.none(args...)`
Requires none of the provided arguments to match the value.

`matchie.not(matcher)`
Inverts the value of the provided `matcher`.

`matchie.or(args...)`
Requires any of the provided arguments to match the value.

`matchie.outside(a, b)`
Requires the value to be between the provided bounds of **(-Inf, `a`) or [`b`, Inf)**
*(This is the inverse of the `.between` function.)*

`matchie.partial(arg)`
`matchie.has(arg)`
If `arg` and value are both arrays, each element in `arg` must match an element in value.
If `arg` and value are both object, each key in `arg` must match a key in value.
Otherwise, this will return false.

`matchie.same(obj)`
Requires a strong comparison *(`===`)* between value and `a`.

`matchie.typeOf(type)`
Requires the value to have the type of `type`.

`matchie.unordered(arg)`
If `arg` and value are both arrays, `arg` and value must contain the same set of elements, however, the order is not important.
Otherwise, this will return false.

`matchie.xor(args...)`
`matchie.one(args...)`
`matchie.single(args...)`
Requires exactly one of the provided arguments to match the value.

## Lodash Wrappers
For the sake of serialization, many of lodash's functions are available through the `matchie.is.???` object.

| Matchie Function        | Lodash Function   |
| ----------------------- | ----------------- |
| `matchie.is.array`      | `_.isArray`       |
| `matchie.is.boolean`    | `_.isBoolean`     |
| `matchie.is.date`       | `_.isDate`        |
| `matchie.is.element`    | `_.isElement`     |
| `matchie.is.empty`      | `_.isEmpty`       |
| `matchie.is.error`      | `_.isError`       |
| `matchie.is.finite`     | `_.isFinite`      |
| `matchie.is.function`   | `_.isFunction`    |
| `matchie.is.integer`    | `_.isInteger`     |
| `matchie.is.nan`        | `_.isNaN`         |
| `matchie.is.native`     | `_.isNative`      |
| `matchie.is.nil`        | `_.isNil`         |
| `matchie.is.null`       | `_.isNull`        |
| `matchie.is.number`     | `_.isNumber`      |
| `matchie.is.object`     | `_.isObject`      |
| `matchie.is.plainObject`| `_.isPlainObject` |
| `matchie.is.regExp`     | `_.isRegExp`      |
| `matchie.is.string`     | `_.isString`      |
| `matchie.is.typedArray` | `_.isTypedArray`  |
| `matchie.is.undefined`  | `_.isUndefined`   |

## Converter Functions
Sometimes the value will not be in a sensible format to then compare against your matcher. Converters allow you to convert the input value to a different
type before performing the matcher comparison.

| Converter Function      | Lodash Equivalent |
| ----------------------- | ----------------- |
| `matchie.as.integer`    | `_.toInteger`     |
| `matchie.as.number`     | `_.toNumber`      |
| `matchie.as.string`     | `_.toString`      |

There is also `matchie.as.json` which parses the input through `JSON.parse`, and presents an object. If the input string cannot be parsed, this matcher
will return `false` instead, with no comparisons performed with its value.

#### JSON Input example
```JavaScript
var matcher = matchie.as.json(matchie.has({a: 1}));

matchie('{"a": 1, "b": 1}', matcher); // true
matchie('{"a": 2, "b": 1}', matcher); // false
matchie('{crazy: value: pair}', matcher); // false
```

## Serialization
If you need to store a matcher object as string, you can use `matchie.serialize(matcher)` and `matchie.deserialize(string)`.
*(NOTE: Not all utility functions can be serialized!)*
